What is the process of making and managing expenditures on long-lived assets?
Capital budgeting.
What is current assets minus current liabilities?
Net working capital.
What is a business owned by one person?
A sole proprietorship.
Someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm?
Stakeholder.
This act is intended to protect investors from corporate abuses.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The ease and quickness with which assets can be converted to cash is called?
Liquidity.
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income is called?
Average tax rate.
A tax rate that is the same for all income levels is called?
A flat tax rate.
Net income divided by the number of shares outstanding is called?
Earnings per share or EPS.
Return on equity is equal to net income divided by what?
Total equity.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid of what two forms of business enterprises?
A partnership and a corporation.
What does EBIT stand for?
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes.
What are the three basic legal forms of organizing firms?
Sole Proprietorship, Partnership and Corporation.
What is Capital Structure?
The proportion of a firm’s financing from current and long-term debt and equity.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency relationship?
The relationship between stockholders and management.
Who are stakeholders?
Someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm.
Under GAAP, at what value are assets carried on the Balance Sheet?
At cost.
Which financial statement measures performance over a specific period of time?
The Income Statement.
What is the matching principle of GAAP?
Revenues must be matched with expenses.
What does the Statement of Cash Flows explain?
The change in accounting cash and equivalents.
What does operating cash flow measure?
Cash generated from operations not counting capital spending or working capital requirements.
How is the current ratio calculated?
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
What are profitability measures intended to measure?
How efficiently the firm uses its assets and manages its operations.
What are pro forma financial statements?
Financial statements in the form used to summarize the projected future financial status of the company.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The maximum growth rate a firm can achieve with no external equity financing while it maintains a constant debt-equity ratio.
What four factors does a firm’s ability to sustain growth depend on?
Profit margin, dividend policy, financial policy and total asset turnover. 
What is the difference between simple interest and compound interest?
Each interest payment is reinvested with compound interest, whereas interest is not reinvested with simple interest.
What is the opposite of compounding?
Discounting.
What is the difference between a perpetuity and an annuity?
A perpetuity is a constant stream of cash flows without end, whereas an annuity is a level stream of payments that only lasts for a fixed number of periods.
What does amortizing a loan mean?
Providing for a loan to be paid off by making regular principal reductions.
What is the stated annual interest rate?
The annual interest rate without consideration of compounding.
What is the Net Present Value (NPV) Rule?
Accept if the NPV is greater than zero, reject if the NPV is less than zero.
What are the three key attributes to Net Present Value (NPV)?
NPV uses cash flows, NPV uses all the cash flows of the project, NPV discounts the cash flows properly.
Why is the discount rate often referred to as an opportunity cost?
Because corporate investment in a project takes away the stockholders opportunity to invest the dividend in a financial asset.
What is the basic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) investment rule?
Accept if the IRR is greater than the discount rate, reject of the IRR is less than the discount rate.
What is a mutually exclusive investment?
One where you are allowed to accept A or B or reject both A and B, but are not allowed to accept both A and B.
What are incremental cash flows?
Changes in the cash flows that occur as a direct consequence of accepting a project.
What is the difference between synergy and erosion?
The side effect of a newly proposed project may either reduces sales of current products (erosion), or increase cash flows of an existing project (synergy).
When should a company decided to replace a piece of machinery?
When the annual cost of the new machine is less than the annual cost of the old machine.
What is a nominal cash flow?
Actual dollars to be received (or paid out).
What set of books is relevant for capital budgeting, stockholders’ or tax?
Tax books.
What are real options?
Adjustments that a firm can make after a project is accepted.
This document is a snapshot of the assets a firm owns, and how they are financed.
Balance Sheet
This is the proportion of debt relative to equity financing of a firm’s assets.
Leverage
This statement is a combination of balance sheet and income statement.
Cash Flow Statement
These ratios are used to compare a single company’s performance over time and across companies.
Financial Ratios
Name the 5 categories financial ratios are classified under.
Leverage, Liquidity, Asset Use Efficiency, Profitability and Market Values Measures
What ratio is earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) divided by the interest payment?
Times Interest Earned Ratio
This analysis uses ratios to show how firm efficiency and leverage can influence shareholder returns (ROE).
DuPont
What theory states that money available at the present time is worth more than the same amount in the future due to its potential earning capacity.
Time Value of Money (TVM)
What are the two calculations that make up Total Return?
Dividend yield and capital gain.
What is the excess return of the risky asset?
The difference between risky returns and risk-free returns.
What is the equity risk premium?
The average excess return on common stocks.
What is the Sharpe Ratio?
The risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation.
What is the geometric average return?
The average compound return per year over a particular period.
What is the arithmetic average return?
The return in an average year over a particular period.
What is the standard error?
The standard deviation of the historical risk premium.
What is the expected return on a portfolio?
The weighted average of the expected returns on the individual securities.
What does the variance of a security measure?
The variability of an individual security’s return. 
What does the covariance measure?
Relationship between two securities.
What is a systematic risk?
Any risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree.
What is an unsystematic risk?
A risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets. 
What does Beta measure?
The responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio.
What is the process of leaving money in the financial market and lending it for another year?
Compounding
What is a finite number of growing cash flows called?
Growing annuity
What project is one whose acceptance or rejection is independent of the acceptance or rejection of other projects?
An independent project
Present Value (PV) of cash flows subsequent to initial investment divided by initial investment is equal to what?
The Profitability Index (PI)
What is a sunk cost?
A cost that has already occurred
What is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price?
Capital gain (or loss)
What are the two most common measures of variability or dispersion?
Variance and Standard deviation (variance's square root)
What ratio is calculated as the risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation?
The Sharpe ratio
What does CAPM stand for?
Capital Asset Pricing Model
Any risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree is called what?
A systematic risk
Any risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets is called what?
An unsystematic risk
Companies with high fixed costs and low variable costs are generally said to have high what?
Operating leverage
What does WACC stand for?
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
What type of stock has no special preference either in receiving dividends or in bankruptcy?
Common Stock
What is the grant of authority by a shareholder to someone else to vote his/her shares called?
Proxy
What are paid to shareholders and represent a return on the capital directly or indirectly contributed to the corporation by the shareholders?
Dividends
What type of stock has preference over common stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of liquidation?
Preferred stock
Also known as the deed of trust, what is the written agreement between the corporation and its creditors?
An Indenture
What is an unsecured bond for which no specific pledge of property is made?
A debenture
What is the fund that is managed by the bond trustee for the purpose of repaying the bonds?
A sinking fund
What is the type of bond issued in multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuer's home currency?
A Eurobond
Unlike Eurobonds, what bonds are issued in a single country and are usually denominated in that country's currency?
Foreign bonds
What is the theory where a firm's capital structure decision involves a trade-off between the tax benefits of debt and the costs of financial distress?
The Trade-Off or Static Trade-Off Theory of capital structure
What is Net Present Value (NPV) plus Net Present Value of Financing (NPVF) side effects?
Adjusted Present Value (APV)
What are the 3 steps to the Flow to Equity (FTE) approach?
Calculating the Levered Cash Flow (LCF), Calculating the discount rate and Valuation
What is it called when a dividend is paid out in shares of stock?
A stock dividend
What is it called when a company divides its current shares of stock into multiple shares?
A stock split.
What is calculated when adding capital expenditures plus dividends?
Cash flow
What is it called when the preliminary prospectus contains bold red letters printed on the cover page?
A red herring
What does IPO stand for?
Initial Public Offering
In a rights offering, what is the price called that existing shareholders are allowed to pay for a share of stock?
Subscription price
What is calculated by dividing the total amount of funds to be raised by the subscription price?
The number of new shares
In regards to securities, what is dilution?
A loss in existing shareholders' value.
Name 3 kinds of dilution.
Dilution of percentage ownership, Dilution of market value and Dilution of book value and earnings per share
What is it called when a company sells an asset it owns to another firm and immediately leases it back?
A sale and leaseback
What option gives the owner the right to buy an asset at a fixed price during a particular period?
A call option
What are those assets that have short lives, such as inventory?
Current Assets
What are those assets that will last a long time, such as buildings?
Fixed Assets
What is debt that does not have to be repaid within one year?
Long-Term Debt
What are obligations of the firm that require a payout of cash within a specified period?
Liabilities
What is the price at which willing buyers and sellers would trade the assets?
Market Value
Revenue minus expenses is equal to?
Income
What does ROA stand for?
Return on Assets
Net Income divided by Total Assets is equal to?
Return on Assets
What does ROE stand for?
Return on Equity
To calculate this ratio, take the Price per share and divide it by Earnings per share.
PE Ratio
According to the Dupont identity, what 3 things is ROE affected by?
Operating efficiency, Asset use efficiency and Financial leverage
What ratio is the total assets to sales?
Capital Intensity Ratio
What is the maximum growth rate that can be achieved with no external financing of any kind (using internal financing only)?
Internal Growth Rate
Profit margin x Total asset turnover x Equity multiplier is equal to?
ROE
What is the sum of the dividend income and the capital gain or loss on the investment?
Total Dollar Return
What is the change in the price of the stock divided by the initial price?
Capital Gain (or loss)
What stock portfolio is based on the Standard & Poor's Composite Index?
Large-Company Common Stocks
What stock portfolio corresponds to the bottom fifth of stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange in which stocks are raned by market value?
Small-Company Common Stocks
What is a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with a 20-year maturities?
Long-term Corporate Bonds
What is based on U.S. government bonds with maturities of 20 years?
Long-term U.S. Government Bonds
What is based on Treasury bills with one-month maturity?
U.S. Treasury Bills
What is found by adding up all of the values and dividing by the total number of values?
The Average or Mean
What is the difference between risky returns and risk-free returns often called?
Excess Return on the Risky Asset
What is the average excess return on common stocks called?
Equity Risk Premium
What is the square root of the variance?
Standard Deviation
What Greek letter is used to represent the standard deviation?
Sigma
What is calculated as the risk premium of the asset divided by the standard deviation?
Sharpe Ratio
What shape is a normal distribution when it is drawn from a large enough sample?
Bell-shaped Curve
What tells you your average compound return per year over a particular period?
Geometric Average
What tells you your return in an average year over a particular period?
Arithmetic Average
What is the weighted average of the expected returns on the individual securities?
Expected Return on a Portfolio
What is the variance of the return on a portfolio with many securities dependent on?
Covariance Between the Individual Securities
What is a risk that affects a large number of assets, each to a greater or lesser degree?
Systematic Risk
What is a risk that specifically affects a single asset or a small group of assets?
Unsystematic Risk
What measures the responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio?
Beta
What is stock that has no special preference either in receiving dividends or in bankruptcy called?
Common Stock
Who controls the corporation through the right to elect the directors?
Shareholders
What type of voting is calculated as the number of shares multiplied by the number of directors to be elected?
Cumulative Voting
In what type of voting are the directors elected one at a time?
Straight Voting
What measures the responsiveness of a security to movements in the market portfolio?
Beta
When using the capital asset pricing model, what is added to the product of beta of the security and the difference between expected return on market and risk-free rate?
Risk-free rate
What type of voting can "freeze out" minority shareholders?
Straight Voting
What tactic makes it more difficult for a minority to elect a director when there is cumulative voting because there are fewer directors to be elected at one time?
Staggering
What tactic makes it less likely that takeover attempts will succeed because it makes it more difficult to vote in a majority of new directors?
Staggering
What is a grant of authority by a shareholder to someone else to vote her shares called?
Proxy
What do we call a situation where an "outisde" group of shareholders tries to obtain votes via proxy becasue they are not satisfied with management?
Proxy Fight
What is the ability for stockholders to share proportionally in any new stock sold called?
Preemptive Right
What represents a return on the capital directly or indirectly contributed to the corporation by the shareholders?
Dividends
Where do corporations get the money to pay dividends?
Aftertax profits
What percentage of dividends is taxed for corporations that own stock in other corporations?
30%
Owners of what type of stock usually have no voting privileges?
Preferred Stock
What are preferred dividends that are cumulative and not paid in a particular year carried forward as?
Arrearage
The existence of what effectively creates a final maturity because it means that the entire issue will ultimately be retired?
Sinking Funds
What does TOPrS stand for?
Trust-Originated Preferred Securities
What does MIPS stand for?
Monthly Income Preferred Securitites
What does QUIPS stand for?
Quarterly Income Preferred Securities
What is the person or firm making the loan called?
Creditor or Lender
What is the corporation borrowing money called?
Debtor or Borrower
If a firm fails to pay off its debt, who can legally claim the assets of the firm?
Creditors
What is short-term debt sometimes referred to as?
Unfunded Debt
What are debt securities typically called?
Notes, Debentures, or Bonds
Notes typically have issues with an original maturity of how many years?
10 Years or Less
What are longer-term issues called?
Bonds
What is the written agreement between the corporation and its creditors?
Indenture
What is the indenture sometimes referred to as?
Deed of Trust
What is an unsecured bond for which no specific pledge of property is made?
Debenture
What is an account managed by the bond trustee for the purpose of repaying the bonds?
Sinking Fund
What allows the company to repurchase, or "call," part or all of the bond issue at stated prices over a specific period?
Call Provision
What is the difference between the call price and the stated value called?
Call Premium
What is the part of the indenture or loan agreement that limits certain actions a company might otherwise wish to take during the term of the loan?
Protective Covenant
What is a "thou shalt not" type of covenant?
Negative Covenant
What type of convenant specifies an action that the company agrees to take or a condition the company must abide by?
Positive Covenant
What is a bond issued by multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usually the issuer's home currency?
Eurobond
What is a bond issued in a single country that is usually denominated in that country's currency?
Foreign Bonds
What is the expected earnings to unlevered firm divided by to find the cost of capital for an all-equity firm?
Unlevered Equity
What occurs when ownership of the firm's assets is legally transferred from the stockholders to the bondholders?
Bankruptcy
What kind of costs occur because of conflicts of interest that arise between stockholders and bondholders?
Agency Costs
What types of agreements are incorporated as part of the loan document between stockholders and bondholders?
Protective Covenants
What type of covenant limits or prohibits actions that the company may take?
Negative Covenant
What type of claims can be bought and sold in financial markets?
Marketable Claims
How many times a year do public companies usually pay regular cash dividends?
Four Times a Year
What type of dividend results in no cash leaving the firm, but rather increases the number of shares outstanding?
Stock Dividend
What is it called when a firm may use cash to buy back shares of its stock?
Stock Repurchase
What is the rise in the stock price following the dividend signal called?
Information Content Effect of the Dividend
What type of financial instrument is generally considered to be risk-free?
Treasury instruments.
What type of correlation does a security with a positive beta have with the market?
A positive correlation.
What three factors of a firm determine the beta of a stock?
The cyclical nature of revenues, operating leverage, and financial leverage.
If a project has a different risk from the firm, what discount rate should be used?
The discount rate that correlates with the project’s own risk.
How is the cost of debt determined?
It is the cost of borrowing.
Why is the cost of debt tax-adjusted?
Interest payments can be deducted before paying taxes, but dividends are not tax deductible.
In cumulative voting, how is the number of votes each shareholder can cast typically calculated?
Number of shares (owned or controlled) multiplied by the number of directors to be elected.
What are the two main effects of stagger voting?
It makes it more difficult for a minority shareholder to elect a director when there is cumulative voting and it makes takeover attempts less likely to be successful.
How does preferred stock differ from common stock?
It has preference in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of a liquidation.
What is a commitment?
A commitment establishes a line of credit and allows a firm to borrow up to a predetermined limit.
What is the difference between a conventional bond and a floating-rate bond?
A conventional rate bond has a fixed-dollar obligation, while a floating-rate bond has adjustable payments. 
What is the only way changes in capital structure benefit stockholders?
Only if the value of the firm increases. 
Why does MM Proposition II under no taxes suggest a positive relationship between the expected return on equity and leverage?
Because the risk of equity increases with leverage.
What type of capital structure should managers choose that will be most beneficial to a firm’s stockholders?
One that they believe will have the highest firm value.
What does the MM Proposition I (no taxes) illustrate?
The value of the levered firm is the same as the value of the unlevered firm.
What does the MM Proposition II (no taxes) illustrate?
The expected return on equity is positively related to leverage.  
How does the ownership of the firm’s assets change when a firm goes into bankruptcy?
Ownership is legally transferred from the stockholders to the bondholders.
What are the two types of protective covenants?
Negative covenants and positive covenants. 
Who are the claim holders for marketable claims?
Stockholders and bondholders.
At what point is a firm’s capital structure optimized?
Where the marginal subsidy to debt equals the marginal cost. 
What are the two rules of the pecking-order theory?
The first rule is to use internal financing and the second rule is to issue the safest securities first. 
What is the effect of a stock dividend?
To increase the number of shares that each owner holds. 
What are the two reasons for reverse stock split?
Increase price to meet a stock exchange minimum and to buy out any stockholders who have less than a certain number of shares. 
When are dividends taxed?
Upon payment. 
What is the information content effect of a dividend?
When the rise in stock price follows the dividend signal.
What are the three ways share repurchases typically accomplished?
Open market purchases, tender offer and targeted repurchase. 
What is capital structure?
A firm’s financing proportion of debt and equity.
What is the role of a financial manager?
Make financial decisions and create value based on the firm’s financial statements.
What is a Limited Liability Company (LLC)?
A hybrid of a partnership and corporation in which the owners have limited liability and taxed at personal income rate.
What is a corporation?
A legal entity that has all the legal powers of a natural person except for the right to vote.
What is needed to form a corporation?
Articles of incorporation and bylaws.
What needs to be included in the articles of incorporation?
Name of the corporation, intended life of the corporation, business purpose, number of shares of stock for issuance, rights granted to shareholders, and number of initial board members.
What are bylaws?
Rules used by the corporation to regulate daily business dealings.
Who are stakeholders?
People or businesses that have an interest in the firm’s decisions, such as employees, customers, creditors, and the government.
What is the equivalent to assets on the balance sheet?
Liabilities plus stock holder’s equity.
What does a financial manager need to be aware of when analyzing a balance sheet?
Liquidity, debt versus equity, and value versus cost.
What is the term that refers to the ease at which assets can easily be converted to cash?
Liquidity.
What types of assets are the most liquid?
Current assets, which are assets that will be converted within one year.
Which assets are the least liquid?
Fixed assets.
What are liabilities?
Obligations of the firm that require a cash payment within a specified timeframe.
What is market value?
The price at which buyers and sellers agree to trade.
What is book value?
The historical cost of an asset bought or sold.
What is equivalent to income on the income statement?
Revenue minus expenses.
What is the cash flow generated from business activities including the sale of goods and services?
Operating cash flow.
How do you calculate net working capital?
Current assets minus current liabilities.
What are financial ratios?
Ratios that deal with liquidity and how bills are paid over the short term.
What is financial leverage?
The ability to pay bills over the long term.
What is the equity multiplier?
The amount of which the capital structure is increasing the risk and return.
How is current ratio calculated?
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
What formula can be used to make sure interest payments will be covered?
Times interest earned ratio (EBIT/interest).
What formula can be used to illustrate how much in sales can be generated from a particular asset?
Total asset turnover (sales/assets).
What ratio indicates how much of sales turn into income?
Profit margin (net income/sales).
What are pro forma financials?
Projected financials which can show contradictions in a firm’s financial plan.
What is total asset turnover?
For every dollar in assets and percentage is earned in sales. (Sales/total assets).
What is the plowback ratio?
The ratio of all retained earnings not paid out. (1 minus cash dividends divided by net income).  
What is a payment that is made for every period in an infinite number of periods?
Perpetuity.
What is payback?
The time it takes to receive the value of an investment ignoring the time value of money.
What does payback not take into account?
Time value of money, risk of the project, cash flows after the payback amount has been met.
In what situation can profitability index be useful?
When ranking projects to decide which projects should be accepted based on capital budgeting.
What is not included in incremental cash flows?
Sunk costs.
What costs are not included in capital budgeting?
Allocated costs and marketing costs.
What is capital gain?
The number of shares of stock multiplied by a new given market price.
What is defined as the dividend per year multiplied by the number of shares?
The dividend paid.
Which type of stock will have the highest standard deviation?
Small company stocks.
True stocks differ in what two areas?
The mean and the standard deviation.
What describes the measure of how wide the dispersion in the expected return on stock?
The variance.
What is excess return?
The amount of return that exceeds the risk free rate of return.
What is the investor’s reward for bearing risk?
The Sharpe ratio. (Average return/standard deviation)
What do we use to calculate a future expected return within the next period?
The arithmetic mean.
What does the geometric average calculate?
A holding period’s expected return within a specific time period, such as 5 years.
What is portfolio theory?
Historical returns that can be analyzed to calculate expected returns.
What is the cost of equity capital?
The expected return on the stock.
What is expected return?
The best guess estimate of what the return on stock will be within the next period.
What is covariance?
The analysis of how stocks move together.
What is correlation?
The analysis of how two stocks are related to each other.
What will lower the standard deviation of a portfolio?
Adding assets to the portfolio so long as the assets are not perfectly correlated.
What is the market portfolio?
A portfolio of stocks held by every investor.
What is the main rule for net present value (NPV)?
Accept a project if the net present value is greater than zero.
What is NPV?
The contribution of a project to the firm’s overall value.
What is internal rate of return (IRR)?
The number that considers cash flows to find the return on a project.
What is a sunk cost?
A cost that has already been paid.
Which calculation is the same whether it is calculated as real or nominal numbers?
Net present value (NPV).
What types of decisions can be made to change a stock’s beta?
Changes in industry borrowing.
What is the rate at which cash flows are discounted for risky projects?
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC)
What would the effect be of using weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for an entire portfolio?
More risker projects would be accepted and more low-risk projects would be rejected.
What is the capital asset pricing model (CAPM)?
The relationship between the expected return on stock and beta.
How do investors calculate CAPM?
The risk free rate plus the beta of a security multiplied by the difference between the expected return on the market and the risk-free rate.
What is beta?
The measure of sensitivity to the market within a portfolio.
If a firm increases their financial leverage what also increases?
Beta
If a firm increases their debt-to-equity ratio what also increases?
Beta
In terms of leverage, does the equity of a levered firm have a higher beta?
Yes, the beta of a levered firm is higher than an unlevered firm.
What is left out of the cost of financing?
Flotation costs.
What does long term financing increase?
Debt-to-equity ratio
What is considered the issuing of debt to buy back equity?
Long term debt financing.
Who has a residual claim on the assets of a firm?
Common stock holders.
What can affect the agency problem?
Voting rights of shareholders.
What are types of voting rights?
Cumulative, straight, and proxy.
What is equity?
Equity is a residual claim.
What does liquidity mean?
Liquidity means how quickly you can sell something without having to discount it.
What is kind of cost is a debt replacement?
Debt replacement is a hidden cost.
How do you calculate operating cash flow?
operating cash flow = earnings before income taxes + depreciation – taxes
How do you calculate the debt to equity ratio?
you divide debt by equity
How do you calculate the equity multiplier?
you divide debt by equity and subtract 1
How do you calculate total asset turnover?
You divide sales by assets
What are pro forma financial statements?
Pro forma financial statements are projected financial statements.
What is the dividend payout ratio?
The dividend payout ratio is the proportion of net income the company pays in dividends
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is when the cash flows grow at a fixed rate each period.
What is an annuity?
An annuity is a fixed payment for a fixed number of periods.
What is discounted payback?
Discounted payback is when each cash flow is discounted at a risk adjusted rate.
What is a sunk cost?
A sunk cost is a cost we already incurred.
Are sunk costs included in incremental cash flows?
The sunk costs already happened and therefore they are not included.
What is the real rate?
The real rate is a change in what I can buy.
What is the nominal rate?
The nominal rate is a change in the dollars received.
What is the bottom up approach?
operating cash flow = net income + depreciation
What is the top down approach?
operating cash flow = (sales-costs)(1-tax rate) + Depreciation*tax rate 
What is marginal tax rate?
The marginal tax rate is the rate you would pay if you earned one more dollar.
What is the stated interest rate?
The stated interest rate is the annual interest tare, without any compounding.
What is APR?
APR, annual percentage rate, is another name for the stated interest rate.
What is continual compounding?
Continual compounding is compounding that happens every single second.
What is a perpetuity?
A perpetuity is a non-ending stream of constant cash flows.
What is an example of an unending cash flow stream?
Consols, a British bond.
What is a growing perpetuity?
A growing perpetuity is when the cash flows are expected to rise indefinitely.
What is an annuity?
An annuity is a stream of regular fixed payments.
What is an annuity due?
An annuity due is when the annuity is at the beginning of the period, not the end.
What is capital budgeting?
Capital budgeting is the decision making process on whether or not to accept or reject a project.
What are opportunity costs?
Opportunity costs are the costs that are forgone by accepting another project.
What are the two types of side effects of determining incremental cash flows?
erosion and synergy
What is erosion?
Erosion is when a new product hurts or reduces sales of an existing product.
What is synergy?
Synergy is the new projects increase or help the cash flows of the existing projects.
What is net working capital?
Net working capital is the difference between the current assets and current liabilities.
What is nominal cash flow?
Nominal cash flows are the actual dollars that are received or paid.
What is real cash flow?
Real cash flow is the purchasing power of the cash flows.
What is a sensitivity analysis?
A sensitivity analysis shows how sensitive NPV, or another variable, can be to the changing assumptions.
What is a scenario analysis?
A scenario analysis is using different scenarios to minimize a problem.
What is a break-even analysis?
A break-even analysis provides the amount of sales needed to break-even.
What are coupon payments?
Coupon payments are regular interest payments the bondholder receives.
What is the face value of a bond?
The face value is the amount that is to be repaid at the end of the loan term.
What is par value?
Par value, another name for face value, is the amount to be repaid at the end of the loan term.
How do you calculate the coupon rate?
annual coupon divided by the face value
What is maturity? 
Maturity is the number of years it takes until the face value of the bond is paid back.
What is the interest rate that is required by the market called?
It is called the bond’s yield to maturity, YTM, or the bonds yield for short.
What are some common types of compounding?
Annual, semiannual, quarterly, and more.
What is interest rate risk?
Interest rate risk is the risk from fluctuating interest rates, affecting the holder of the bond.
Who are the two main bond-rating firms?
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.
How do the bond-rating firms rate credit worthiness?
They rate credit-worthiness by how likely the firm is to default on the loan.
What is the highest rating a firm can have?
AAA or Aaa.
What is the expected return?
The expected return is the return an individual expects a stock to earn.
What is the standard deviation?
Standard deviation is the square root of the stocks variance.
What is systematic risk?
Systematic risk effects all assets.
What is unsystematic risk?
Unsystematic risk effects a single asset.
What is unsystematic risk also called?
Idiosyncratic risk.
What is systematic risk also called?
Market risk.
What is the discount rate also called?
The discount rate can also be called the required rate or the cost of capital.
What three things do we need to know to estimate a firm’s cost of capital?
We need to know the risk-free rate, the market risk premium, and the stock’s beta.
What are the two types of protective covenants?
Negative covenants and positive covenants.
What is a positive covenant?
A positive covenant specifies something the company agrees to or something they must abide by.
What is a negative covenant?
A negative covenant prohibits or limits certain actions that a company can do.
What are marketable claims?
Marketable claims can be bought and sold in financial markets.
Can nonmarketable claims be sold in a financial market?
No, nonmarketable claims cannot be sold in financial markets.
What does paying a cash dividend reduce?
Paying a cash dividend reduces retained earnings and the corporation’s cash.
What is a stock split?
A stock split increases the number of outstanding shares.|
What is a stock repurchase?
A stock repurchase is when a company simply repurchases some of their stock.
What is a stock dividend?
A stock dividend is when a dividend is not paid in cash; it is paid in shares of stock.
What is a prospectus also called and why?
A prospectus is also called a red herring because there are big bold red letters on the cover page.
What is the difference between a competitive offer?
A competitive offer awards the securities to the highest bidder.
What is a negotiated offer?
A negotiated is when the issuing company uses one underwriter. 
Do leases generate agency costs?
Yes, leases do generate agency costs.
